{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Book Antiqua;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset2 Symbol;}}
{\colortbl ;\red155\green0\blue211;\red0\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;}
{\*\generator Riched20 6.3.9600}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\f0\fs40\lang9 Vestiges (TODO - Rename to Karma points)\b0\fs22\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj Vestiges are a meta currency that players earn when they (or rather their characters) do something extraordinary. They are something that remains after those notable moments have passed, hence the name. Players can later spend Vestiges to swing the odds in their favour in key moments in play. There are 3 main types of Karma points: Persona, Endeavour and Torment. <WIP Others>\par
\cf1\b\fs28 Persona\par
\cf0\fs22 Earned by:\b0\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-358\li721\sl276\slmult1\qj Playing out your character's Beliefs, Instincts and Traits convincingly, and in a way that makes the game/story more interesting (which will sometimes mean creating trouble) and moves it forward... Or sideways.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Once per session, a player can earn a Persona point by making everyone at the table laugh while staying in-character.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}At the end of a session, the character who was embodied best by their player through evocative role playing (if any, as determined by a fair vote by everyone at the table) gains one Persona point. *Embodiment*\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj\b Can be used for:\b0\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-358\li721\sl276\slmult1\qj\b Inspiration: \b0 Gain +1 Focus or +1 Skill Exponent for one Skill Test.\b\fs28\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\fs22 ???:\b0  Autopass Effort test after a Skill Test\b\fs28\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\fs22 Will to Live:\b0  Spend along with an Endeavour point to remain alive\b\fs28\par

\pard\sl276\slmult1\qj\par
\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj\cf1 Endeavour\par
\cf0\fs22 Earned by:\b0\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-358\li721\sl276\slmult1\qj ??? Completing goals ???\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}(MOLDBREAKER)\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}At the end of a session, the character who contributed the most towards moving the story forward (if any, as determined by a fair vote by everyone at the table) gains one Endeavour point. *MVP*\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj\b Can be used for:\b0\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li723\sl276\slmult1\qj\b Fortune Favours the Bold: \b0 Re-roll \b all \b0 the dice of a single Skill Test.\b\fs28\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\fs22 ???:\b0  Roll an extra die for a single Skill Test and also consider an additional die when counting successes (same as applying an additional level of RotE).\b\fs28\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\fs22 Will to Live: \b0 asdf\b\fs28\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\fs24 NOTE: \b0 On Moldbreaker {\b{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://forums.burningwheel.com/t/playing-against-beliefs/9745/24 }}{\fldrslt{https://forums.burningwheel.com/t/playing-against-beliefs/9745/24\ul0\cf0}}}}\b\f0\fs28\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj\par
\cf1 Torment\par
\cf0\fs22 Earned by:\b0\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-358\li721\sl276\slmult1\qj Playing out your character's Hardships, Wounds and Traumas vividly. Get your character in an even worse situation; make them hate life.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}When something terrible happens to your character (serious injury, loss of a loved one, betrayal etc).\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}At the end of a session, the character who suffered the most (if any, as determined by a fair vote by everyone at the table) gains one Torment point. *Martyr*\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj\b Can be used for:\b0\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-358\li721\sl276\slmult1\qj\b Retribution: \fs28\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\fs24 Rage: \b0 (ignore Steel limitation for one action)\b\fs28\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\fs22 Will to Live: \b0 remain alive but vow to revenge\b\fs28\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj\cf1\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
Vestige of Drama\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\b Earned by:\b0\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-358\li721\sl276\slmult1\qj Roleplaying the character's Beliefs, Instincts and Traits convincingly, and using them to make trouble.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Stopping the game for a brief moment by in-character humor and making everybody at the table laugh.\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj Driving the story forward by having the right Skill, Trait or tool at the right time when nobody else does.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj\b Can be used for:\b0\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-358\li721\sl276\slmult1\qj\b Luck: \b0 Make a single test open-ended.\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj\b Clarity: \b0 +1 Focus for a single test.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj\cf1\b\fs28 Vestige of Endeavour\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\b Earned by:\b0\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-358\li721\sl276\slmult1\qj Completing the character's personal goals.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\cf3 Workhorse/MVP after a scenario\cf0\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj Driving the story forward in a way that contradicts the character's Instincts and Beliefs and playing out the character's struggle.  <Moldbreaker>\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj\b Can be used for:\b0\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-358\li721\sl276\slmult1\qj\b Inspiration: \b0 +1d to a single test.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\b Grit: \b0 +2 Focus for a single test.\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj\b Will to Live: \cf3\b0 <STUB>\cf0\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj\cf1\b\fs28 Vestige of Torment\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\b Earned by:\b0\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj Roleplaying the character's Wounds, Stress and Traumas, and especially in a way that makes things difficult for the character or gets them in trouble.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj\b Can be used for:\b0\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-358\li721\sl276\slmult1\qj\b Retribution: \b0 Get a bonus for a single test made to antagonize another character (+1d against a stranger, +2d against an indirect foe, +3d against your nemesis).\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\b Blind Vigor: \b0 Ignore all negative effects of Stress and Wounds for a few seconds.\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj\b Will to Live: \cf3\b0 <STUB>\cf0\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj\cf1\b\fs28 Vestige of Glory & Sacrifice\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\b Earned by:\b0\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-358\li721\sl276\slmult1\qj Accomplishing goals that go beyond the character's personal agenda, for reasons other than personal gain.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Sacrificing yourself greatly for others.\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj Helping another character no matter the cost, especially when it contradicts your Beliefs.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj\b Can be used for:\b0\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-358\li721\sl276\slmult1\qj\b Divine Inspiration: \b0 Double the number of dice used for a single test (only affects dice gained from Attributes and Skill Ranks).\b\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Saving Grace: \b0 Reroll all traitors after rolling a single test.\b\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj Will to Live: \cf3\b0 <STUB> \cf0 + regain consciousness\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
}
 