{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1250\deff0\nouicompat\deflang9242{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Book Antiqua;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\colortbl ;\red165\green165\blue165;\red255\green0\blue0;}
{\*\generator Riched20 6.3.9600}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\f0\fs36\lang9 The Art\par

\pard\sl276\slmult1\cf1\fs22 Note: Equilibrium -> Concentration\par
Note: Presence -> Willpower\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 Note: Intelligence -> Reason\cf0\b0\par

\pard\sl276\slmult1\b Priest-Mage ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 AKA: Cleric-Mage, Apostle-Mage\b0\i\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj A Priest-Mage has a patron deity he serves faithfully, and in return the deity performs miracles, small and large, on the mage's behalf. The deity will not, however, help the mage  if doing so would be detrimental to its cause. A Priest-Mage that strays from his faith or starts defying his deity will most likely lose its support, and may even face severe punishment.\par

\pard\sl276\slmult1\qj\b\i0 Power \b0 based on: \b Equilibrium (Concentration)\b0\par
\i Unwavering faith is key to a Priest-Mage's power, and so is deep understanding of his patron deity's teachings and wishes.\i0\par
\b Spell Complexity\b0  based on: \b Presence (Willpower)\b0\par
\i In the end, it's not the Priest-Mage himself that weaves and guides the spell. All he needs to do is convince his god (and himself) that it has to be done, and stand behind that.\i0\par
\b Energy \b0 based on: \b Intelligence (Reason)\b0\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj\i While practicing magic may not be particularly taxing to a Priest-Mage, he must take care as to use his gift with responsibility and in moderation. Be careful what you wish for.\i0\par

\pard\sl276\slmult1\b Pact-Mage ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 AKA: Warlock, Druid \b0 (where applicable)\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj\i A Pact-Mage's powers are the result of a pact with a powerful entity. That entity may be a specific persona, such as a mighty demon (who offers deals to warlocks and witches), or something primordial and abstract, such as nature itself, granting powers to druids vowed to protect it. But one should be wary of breaking such a pact...\i0\par

\pard\sl276\slmult1\qj\b Power \b0 based on: \b Equilibrium (Concentration)\b0\par
\i Only brave men and fools would dare to bargain with powers beyond their comprehension, and such powers know better than to deal with fools.\i0\par
\b Spell complexity \b0 based on: \b Intelligence (Reason)\b0\par
\i Once a Pact-Mage receives the abilities she asked for, it's up to her to find out how to rein them in and use them.\i0\par
\b Energy \b0 based on: \b Presence (Willpower)\b0\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj\i Similar to a Cleric-Mage, a Pact-Mage depends on an external force to provide her with magical energy. But when the energy runs out, there's no alternative than to ask for more - and being decisive here is key.\i0\par

\pard\sl276\slmult1\b Source-Mage ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 AKA: Chosen-Mage\b0\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj\i A rare breed indeed, a Source-Mage is her own source of magic (hence the name). Her powers are her own to develop and direct. Source-Mages are most often born that way, and someone becoming a Source-Mage later in life is the stuff of legends. While the feeling of drawing magic from the very fibers of one's own being is not something that 'ordinary' people can ever experience or comprehend, all known Chosen-Mages have testified that it's both a wonderful and often frightening affair.\i0\par

\pard\sl276\slmult1\qj\b Power \b0 based on: \b Presence (Willpower)\b0\par
\i Passion, emotion, force of personality - these are the things a Source-Mage's  magical powers feed on - and having the willpower to draw them out, suppress them or shape them according to the situation at hand is essential.\i0\par
\b Spell complexity \b0 based on: \b Equilibrium (Concentration)\b0\par
\i A Source-Mage's path of improvement is a path of self-exploration.\i0\par
\b Energy \b0 based on: \b Intelligence (Reason)\b0\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj\i A Source-Mage must be smart about her extraordinary abilities - she must know how to properly tap into them, but also when not to push further. In this regard, she has no one to rely on but herself.\i0\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b Fetish-Mage ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------\line AKA: Disenchanter-Mage\b0\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj\i Though a Fetish-Mage is powerless on his own, he can temporarily gain magical powers by draining them from any supernaturally powerful objects (fetishes) that he can get his hands on - talismans, enchanted weapons and power crystals, to name a few. The gained power will often retain some of its original form (for example, draining a fireball scroll will grant fire-based magic), but a talented Fetish-Mage can learn to transform it into something else. Fetish-Mages are often forced to use their abilities sparingly, since appropriate fetishes are hard to come by but quickly depleted.\i0\par

\pard\sl276\slmult1\qj\b Power \b0 based on: \b Presence (Willpower)\b0\par
\i A Fetish-Mage must be able to assert his will adamantly onto objects whose powers he wants to take away.\i0\par
\b Spell complexity \b0 based on: \b Intelligence (Reason)\b0\par
\i For a Fetish-Mage, utilizing drained magic as something more than just a violent outburst of energy is not a simple task, and requires keen insight and deep understanding.\i0\par
\b Energy \b0 based on: \b Equilibrium (Concentration)\b0\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\i While it's not his own energy that a Fetish-Mage needs to worry about, if he does not keep a calm and clear head while disenchanting a fetish he could waste precious energy at best, or hurt himself at worst.\i0\par

\pard\sl276\slmult1\b Scholar-Mage --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 AKA: Wizard\b0\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj\i A Scholar-Mage is like a Source-Mage in that he does not rely on other beings, entities and artefacts for his power. However, a Scholar-Mage is not born with a special gift either. Scholar-Mages must be trained and taught by older Scholar-Mages, because there's not enough years in a planet's lifetime for one to discover on one's own the secrets that armies and generations of Scholar-Mages have discovered since the first Scholar-Mage. A Scholar-Mage's formal training is an arduous task that lasts many years, and there are few that can take pride in having achieved such a feat, though the rewards are considerable -  Abilities enabled by knowing the deepest, most minute and well-hidden secrets of the universe and how it operates are truly miraculous, and it is believed that with enough understanding one could even compare to a god. When a Scholar-Mage invokes a spell, it's not unlike exploiting a loophole in the rules of the universe, though to a Scholar-Mage it's just a (very hard earned) means to an end.\i0\par

\pard\sl276\slmult1\qj\b Power \b0 based on: \b Intelligence (Reason)\b0\par
\i A Scholar-Mage's casting of a spell is like a symphony, except that the choir, orchestra and dirigent are all the same person. It's difficult and requires great knowledge and extreme precision of mind, movement and voice.\i0\par
\b Spell complexity \b0 based on: \b Equilibrium (Concentration)\b0\par
\i Even the simplest of spells require undivided focus from a Scholar-Mage, while the more complex ones require levels of concentration that most would deem inhuman.\i0\par
\b Energy \b0 based on: \b Presence (Willpower)\b0\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\i Completing Scholar-Mage training requires a special combination of strong will and stubbornness. Sustaining gained abilities afterwards requires it no less.\i0\par

\pard\sl276\slmult1\b Hedge-Mage ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 AKA: Hedge Wizard, Witch\b0\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj\i A Hedge-Mage is a failed Scholar-Mage who didn't get proper training and/or never completed it, but kept experimenting on his own afterwards. While a Hedge-Mage's attempts at magic may turn out to be powerful, they could also be volatile, unpredictable and dangerous. Just practicing magic like that without killing yourself is an art in and of itself.\i0\par

\pard\sl276\slmult1\qj\b Power \b0 based on: \b Intelligence (Reason)\b0\par
\cf2\i Something something same as a Scholar-Mage...\cf0\i0\par
\b Spell complexity \b0 based on: \b Presence (Willpower)\b0\par
\cf2\i ???\cf0\i0\par
\b Energy \b0 based on: \b Equilibrium (Concentration)\b0\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf2\i ???\cf0\i0\f1\par
}
 