{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1250\deff0\nouicompat\deflang9242{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Book Antiqua;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Consolas;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Courier New;}{\f3\fnil\fcharset2 Symbol;}}
{\colortbl ;\red155\green0\blue211;\red255\green0\blue0;\red102\green102\blue102;\red0\green77\blue187;}
{\*\generator Riched20 6.3.9600}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sl276\slmult1\cf1\b\f0\fs32\lang9 Combat:\cf0\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b0\fs22 [Most important chapter for murderhobos.]\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj This chapter introduces rules for attacking and defending, both in close quarters and at a distance. They work best when combined with rules for sequences, which effectively gives you turn-based combat.\cf2\par

\pard\sl276\slmult1\cf1\b\fs32 Melee Combat:\cf0\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b0\fs22 It's fighting with swords and stuff, man.\par

\pard\sl276\slmult1\b Attacking in Melee:\b0\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj To attack with a melee weapon (or unarmed), roll your Melee skill. Base DC to hit is 1, but it can be increased depending on the current situation. The defender may try to increase this DC by actively defending (see "Defending in Melee").\par
If the skill test is successful, you hit your target and deal damage (though whether they actually get hurt or not depends on how armoured they are). Otherwise, you miss and nothing happens.\par
Any success over the DC can be allocated towards increasing the impact of the attack.\cf3\par

\pard\sl276\slmult1\qj\cf4 Dealing Damage:\cf3\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj\cf0 Initial damage dealt depends on the type of weapon used (MIG refers to the attacker's Might modifier):\par

\pard\li720\sl276\slmult1\qj One-handed weapon held with one hand: \par

\pard\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj\tab\f1 InitialDamage = MIG \'d7 1.0 + [Weapon Damage]\par

\pard\li720\sl276\slmult1\qj\f0 One-handed weapon held with 2 hands or 2h weapon held with one hand:\par

\pard\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj\tab\f1 InitialDamage = MIG \'d7 2.0 + [Weapon Damage]\par

\pard\li720\sl276\slmult1\qj\f0 Two-handed weapon held with two hands:\par

\pard\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj\tab\f1 InitialDamage = MIG \'d7 3.0 + [Weapon Damage]\f0\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj Each allocated success adds half of the initial damage to the total damage dealt.\par
If a weapon has a random Bonus Damage value (such as fists), roll for damage only once - for determining initial damage.\par
If the target is wearing armour or has another form of damage reduction, total damage dealt may be reduced (see the "Equipment" chapter).\par
For what happens when a character receives damage, see the "Injury" chapter.\par

\pard\sl276\slmult1\qj\cf4 Action Point Cost:\cf0\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj Look at the profile of the weapon you're attacking with to determine how much AP it costs. Most commonly attacks cost 3 or 4 AP.\cf3\par

\pard\sl276\slmult1\qj\cf4 Hit Location:\cf3\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj Reminder - Locations are: Head, Torso, Left arm, Right arm, Left leg, Right leg\par

\pard\sl276\slmult1\qj\cf0\b Default Hit Location:\b0\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj By default, a successful strike hits the defender's torso. If the players (incl. the GM) deem the torso unreachable, then the location closest to the attacker becomes the default. Also, if the target has some control over the situation, meaning that they are aware of the attacker and can maneuver against him, they may "expose" a different location to become the default instead (provided it is reachable).\par

\pard\sl276\slmult1\qj\b Moving the Hit Location:\b0\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj It costs 1 success to move the hit from the torso or the arms to any other location (and vice versa), and 2 successes to move the hit between the head and the legs. Increase the cost by 1 if the new location is difficult to get to (such as targeting the right arm or leg while attacking from the left side). You cannot move the hit to a location you can't reach (obviously).\par

\pard\sl276\slmult1\qj\b Precise Targeting:\b0\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj You can spend the additional successes to target specific targets on the defender. Cost is determined in relation to the relative size of the hit location and the intended target:\par

\pard\sl276\slmult1\qj\f2 Relative size | Req. succ.  | Examples\par
================================================================\par
50% or more   | 1 success   | Forearm, chest, stomach, mouth\par
25% - 50%     | 2 successes | Hand, ribs, hips, foot\par
10% - 25%     | 3 successes | Finger, groin, eye, ear\par
Less than 10% | 4 successes | ???\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj ================================================================\f0\par

\pard\sl276\slmult1\qj\b Avoiding Armour:\b0\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj Instead of using the "Precise Targeting" rule, you could say that you want to target any part not covered by armour (suits of armour generally have weak points around the joints as to not hinder the wearer's movement too much). Doing this successfully means that your attack bypasses any protection offered by armour.\par
The general rule of thumb is that this costs allocating 1 success, plus 1 additional success per 5 DR provided by armour. The GM is free to adjust the values based on the specific situation: \par

\pard{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf3\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj Armours like cloth and padded are usually fully enclosing because they're soft enough to allow free movement.\b\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}\b0 Same goes for modern and futuristic armours that can be made from materials that are both flexible and durable.\b\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}\b0 Damaged or poorly made suits of armour, as well as those that are not properly sized for the wearer, may have more vulnerable points than usual.\b\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}\b0 Armour is often made to be more protective from the front than from the back.\b\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}\b0 Attackers may choose to try and bypass only the topmost layer or two. In that case, count only the DR provided by those layers.\b\par

\pard\sl276\slmult1\qj Special Attacks:\cf4\b0\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj\cf0 This section describes various special attack and maneuvers that combatants might attempt.\cf4\par

\pard\sl276\slmult1\qj Trip:\cf0\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj You can allocate 2 successes towards tripping a target instead of dealing damage (they become prone). You must have hit the legs in order to do this. Increase cost by 1 if you don't hold an appropriate weapon for tripping (usually one with a hook or a chain).\par

\pard\sl276\slmult1\qj\cf4 Disarm:\cf0\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj You can allocate 2 successes towards disarming a target instead of dealing damage (they drop their weapon). You must have hit the arms in order to do this. Increase cost by 1 if: You don't hold an appropriate weapon for disarming (usually one with a hook or a chain); The defender is holding the weapon with 2 hands; You want to end up holding their weapon instead of dropping it.\par

\pard\sl276\slmult1\qj\cf4 Recover:\cf0\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj You can recover up to half (rounded down) of the Action Points used for the attack. Allocating 2 successes is needed to recover 1 AP.\b\par

\pard\sl276\slmult1\qj Defending in Melee:\b0\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj After the attacker has made his attack roll, the target (defender) may choose to use active defence. If they do, they roll the appropriate skill test and (retroactively) increase the DC for the attack roll by 1 for every success generated. Rolling active defence costs 1 Action Point. No active defence test can be made if the defender is unaware of the attacker.\par
(There is no DC for active defence rolls, so disadvantages reduce the number of dice rolled instead.)\par

\pard\sl276\slmult1\qj\cf4 Back and Forth:\cf0\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj After the defender has rolled his active defence test, if the attacker hasn't reached his effort limit with the initial roll, he may use effort again (usual rules apply regarding Focus requirements and Effort tests).\par
Then the defender can use Effort again, then the attacker again, and so on until both characters either reach their Effort limits or refuse to use Effort again.\par

\pard\sl276\slmult1\qj\cf4 Skills for Defending:\cf0\par

\pard{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf3\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-284\li568\sl276\slmult1\qj\b Reflex \b0 - Dodge the attack. You must move to an adjecent location (otherwise you can't dodge).\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}\b Acrobatics \b0 - Perform a dive. You move from your location and end up prone. Against melee attacks, this is similar to dodging except that you can move twice as far and you end up prone. Against ranged attacks, it works similarly, but factor your prone position in your defence, and if you dive behind some cover, also factor that also.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}\b Acrobatics \b0 (vs Trip) - Perform a fancy maneuver to keep your balance.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}\b Athletics \b0 (vs Disarm or Trip) - Become an immovable object.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}\b Armour \b0 - Block with a shield, another sturdy object, or even with your bare hands. If you block successfully, the attack doesn't miss, but the hit location becomes the hand with which you're holding the shield (or equivalent object) - if you're holding it with both hands, split the damage that passes through evenly. Blocking fully protects from concussive damage. Use DR of the object you're blocking with instead of that of the holding arm(s). Proper shields also confer a bonus to the block roll. See the section on shields in Chapter 10 - Equipment.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}\b Melee Combat \b0 - Block with your weapon. Can't be used against ranged attacks. Defending this way costs 2 AP (instead of 1) the first time you do it in the current round. Disadvantage for having a less massive weapon than your opponent.\par

\pard{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf3\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-284\li568\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj\b Melee Combat \b0 - Parry the attack. Can't be used against ranged attacks. This may open up your opponent up for a counterattack. \cf2 <STUB!>\cf0\par

\pard\sl276\slmult1\qj\cf4 Defend Another:\cf0\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj All defensive actions, except for diving and dodging can be used to defend a character that's close to you. In order to do this, both the attacker and his target must be within your reach, and you suffer a Disadvantage to your active defence roll.\par

\pard\sl276\slmult1\qj\cf1\b\fs32 Ranged Combat:\cf0\b0\fs22\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj [Pew, pew!]\par

\pard\sl276\slmult1\b Attacking at Range:\b0\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj To attack with a thrown or projectile weapon, roll your Ranged Combat skill. Base DC to hit is 1, but it can be increased depending on the current situation. The defender may try to increase this DC by actively defending (see "Defending at Range").\par
If the skill test is successful, you hit your target and deal damage (though whether they actually get hurt or not depends on how armoured they are). Otherwise, you miss and nothing happens.\par
Any success over the DC can be allocated towards increasing the impact of the attack.\cf3\par

\pard\sl276\slmult1\qj\cf4 Dealing Damage:\cf3\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj\cf0 Damage of ranged weapons doesn't depend on any of the user's attributes - only on the weapon's own power and a bit of luck.\par

\pard\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj\tab\f1 RangedDamage = [Weapon Damage] \'d7 Multiplier\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj\f0 The multiplier depends on a d12 roll and the weapon's damage model - Normal, Large or Huge. With some exceptions, weapons with the Normal damage model are classical weapons, like bows and crossbows, modern firearms have the Large damage model, and futuristic plasma rifles, blasters and such have the Huge damage model.\par
The table below shows which number you need to roll on the d12 for a certain multiplier, depending on the weapon's damage model.\f1\par

\pard\sl276\slmult1\qj Multiplier | Normal |   Large |    Huge\par
=======================================\par
        \'d71 |  1 - 4 |   1 - 3 |   1 - 2\par
        \'d72 |  5 - 8 |   4 - 6 |   3 - 5\par
        \'d73 | 9 - 12 |   7 - 9 |   6 - 7\par
        \'d74 |    13+ | 10 - 12 |  8 - 10\par
        \'d75 |      x |     13+ | 11 - 12\par
        \'d76 |      x |       x |     13+\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj =======================================\f0\par
Each allocated success adds +1 to the d12 roll.\par
If the target is wearing armour or has another form of damage reduction, total damage dealt may be reduced (see the "Equipment" chapter).\par
For what happens when a character receives damage, see the "Injury" chapter.\par

\pard\sl276\slmult1\qj\cf4 Action Point Cost:\cf0\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj Look at the profile of the weapon you're using to attack to determine how much AP it costs. Most commonly ranged attacks cost 4 or 5 AP.\par

\pard\sl276\slmult1\qj\cf4 Hit Location:\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj\cf0 The rules for determining hit location are the same as for melee combat, with one exception: The default hit location is always largest reachable (exposed) body part - usually the torso. The defender can't choose to purposefully expose any particular body part.\par

\pard\sl276\slmult1\qj\cf4 Recover & Back and Forth:\cf0\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj Same as for melee combat.\par

\pard\sl276\slmult1\qj\cf4 Defence:\cf0\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj Same as for Melee Combat.\par

\pard\sl276\slmult1\qj\cf1\b\fs32 Conditional Modifiers:\cf0\b0\fs22\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj [Because "complex" and "good" are synonymous over here.]\par
\cf2 <Placeholder>\par
}
 